# Day 3:

The concept I worked on today was mostly dedicated to my partner Aayush, as we were trying to implement a countdown timer in our game, specifically a 30 second one. We debated on whether we should use frameCount or millis, and Mrs. Kim told us that using frameCount would be an easier pick for us and simpler overall, and therefore, we stuck to frameCount and determined the logic that we had to use for it. We also worked on the main menu (ending screen), designing the overall display for what the ending screen would look like.  We did not fully implement the timer into the code today, since I have the main code with images on my computer and Aayush is coding different methods on the side, so we did not test the timer with our full code yet, but we got the timer running, and soon we can ensure that it goes from 30 seconds to one second overall. The main menu for the ending screen is also created, and we will be implementing that really soon, specifically tomorrow, which is gonna be a really important day for us because we will be combining a lot of logic and also trying to run it perfectly. The challenges we encountered was the debate between either using millis or frameCount. I told Aayush that we should much rather use millis because it is an inbuilt Processing function and it may be much easier to utilise it than using frameCount and finding the entire logic behind it. This issue was solved after we asked Mrs. Kim about it and she let us know that frameCount might be the easier option if we want to build a timer for our game, so we went on with frameCount and created a timer using it. 

[Daily Logs](dailylogs.md)

[Main Page](../index.md)
