# Day 4: 

Today was our final day and we had to combine everything together, and also add things we planned earlier but did not get time to execute because of the days we missed, it will be difficult to go through everything through text, so here are all the things that are easily explained through text. First, I implemented arrays and data structures. This was the most significant addition, as I mainly used it to generate all my platforms properly so that the map looked visually appealing but not too perfect so that it was harder to play on. I used three float arrays, platX, platY, and playW, each of who’s i value will all dictate all the platforms, and the height for all will stay the same since we want the platform size to stay the same. These three arrays are accessed in three places, first is drawGameplay, to draw every platform (which is run by a for loop, looping through the arrayLength, and assigning the i value of each array to the corresponding height, width, x and y value, and etc.), and the second is processplayer(1 or 2 since we have both) to run collision detection against every platform. I also added a landingThreshold, since I want to calculate that once the player goes a certain amount of pixels inside the platform, it will snap back to the platform entirely, I am keeping this as 8 or 10. We also added our platform detection logic, where before it begins it states that p(½)OnGround = false, which makes sure that the player is in the air when this method is run. We loop through all platforms, and assign variables for the left and right edge. We ensure that the players X coordinate is between the left and right edge somewhere, and not over, and then ensure that players y velocity is >= 0, which makes sure the player is falling (to account for going too far into pixel) or 0, which is on the ground, we ensure that the players feet (bottom) is above the platform, and that the feet haven’t fallen too far past the collision threshold, when all of these together are true, we snap the player to the platform that they are on, and this is one of the best implementations we have done in this entire project so far. We also implemented cooldown and collision systems, where we implemented our 1 second cooldown, and found distance between p1 and p2 and based on that implemented our collision system. Our biggest challenge today was the time crunch. We had to implement a lot of things that we had planned for, and mostly had the logic down for. We just had to write it down and hope that our logic that we planned was perfectly fine to encounter no bugs. But obviously, nothing is perfect, so we did encounter some bugs, we managed to fix some bugs, and did not manage to fix others, but the ones we did not manage to fix were essentially removed by changing methods up and removing some external features that served no purpose whatsoever. Overall, we have 95% finished our entire project, and we are happy with what we have accomplished, because we were already at a disadvantage due to our extracurricular activities and having to leave school so often, but we managed our time well, planned everything out well, and in the end finished the project. 

[Daily Logs](dailylogs.md)

[Main Page](../index.md)
